Newsletters: add 246 (2023-04-12) (#1072)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/newsletters/2023-04-12-newsletter.md

---
title: 'Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #246'
permalink: /en/newsletters/2023/04/12/
name: 2023-04-12-newsletter
slug: 2023-04-12-newsletter
type: newsletter
layout: newsletter
lang: en
---
This week's newsletter FIXME

## News

- **Splicing specification discussions:** several LN developers posted
  to the Lightning-Dev mailing list this week about ongoing work on the
  [draft specification][bolts #863] for [splicing][topic splicing],
  which allows some funds in an offchain LN channel to be spent onchain
  (splice-out) or for onchain funds to be added to an offchain channel
  (splice-in).  The channel can continue to operate while an onchain
  splicing transaction is waiting for sufficient confirmations.

  {:.center}

>   ![Splicing transaction flow](/img/posts/2023-04-splicing1.dot.png)

Reviewer: In the graphs, I interpret the boxes as transactions and the arrows as TXOs. I assume that the silver boxes are meant to indicate that transactions are confirmed. If all of these assumptions are correct, it might be useful to give the “New Funding” transaction another shading to distinguish that the “New Funding” tx is published to the blockchain immediately, while the commitment transactions are not.

Further, it seems to me that the important information is that there is two alternative paths for the funding transaction to be spent while the New Funding tx is waiting for confirmation. I would perhaps add the original path as an alternative spending path to the funding in the Splice graphs, e.g. for splice in (other parts on right not drawn):

```
┌───────────┐       ┌─────────────┐
│           ├──────►│             │
│ Funding   │       │ Comm (Orig) │
│           ├───┐   │             │
└───────────┘   │   └─────────────┘
                │
┌───────────┐   │   ┌─────────────┐
│           │   │   │             │
│   Alice   ├───┴──►│  New Funding│
│           │       │             │
└───────────┘       └─────────────┘
```

  Discussions this week included:

  - *Which commitment signatures to send:* when a splice is created, a
    node will hold parallel commitment transactions, one that spends
    from the original funding output and one that spends from each new
    funding output for all pending splices.  As of this writing, the
    current draft specification involves sending signatures for every
    commitment transaction that could possibly need to be confirmed,

>     even for commitment transactions whose signatures have previously

Author: > It sounds like the exact same data is sent again

That is correct.

> but wouldn’t you just need to develop two parallel sets of commitment transactions (one based on the old channel anchor, the other based on the new channel anchor with the splice) until the splice has sufficient confirmation?

That is also correct.

> Perhaps it could be clarified why any data might be duplicated.

"As Lisa Neigut [explains][neigut splice], this allows reusing the workflow already used in LN for updating a commitment transaction."

The current (pre-splice) workflow for updating a commitment transaction is for Alice to send Bob her signature for the new commitment (and vice versa Bob) and then Alice to send Bob her revocation point for the old commitment (also vice versa Bob).  For splices, there's multiple alternative commitment transactions that all need to be kept in sync, so instead of sending individual signatures and revocation points, Alice and Bob each send an array of sigs and revocations for all of the current alternatives.

When you create a new alternative commitment, you only **need** to send signatures for it.  But the pre-splice workflow and the original splice design expect you to use a message that sends signatures for every current alternative commitment transaction (and revocations for every previous state).  That's unnecessarily redundant, but changing the protocol to only send two required signatures involves some tradeoffs that apparently developers wanted to consider, specifically that adding a different message, or using the existing messages in different contexts, increases the complexity of the protocol and requires writing more tests.

(I'll try to work at least some of the above into the text, but I wanted to explain it here to see if it makes sense to you or to see if any LN people show up to tell me I'm daft.  :-)

>     even for commitment transactions whose signatures have previously

Reviewer: Yeah, it wasn’t clear to me whether the other parallel state was being sent in addition, or the old states, so your longer explanation makes this much clearer to me :)

Thanks for explaining!

>     even for commitment transactions whose signatures have previously

Author: Quick note that what I described to @Xekyo above is not entirely accurate.  The current splicing draft doesn't send an array of signatures or revocation points; instead, those messages are duplicated for every current commitment transaction.  The general point holds, though: the simplest protocol/testing situation would be "when sending sigs for any commitment transaction, send one for all current commitment transactions".  To only send a single sig for a new splice requires special casing in several places in the specifacation (and presumably in implementations).

I just wanted to note that here in case anyone will be confused by my update to the newsletter text differing from what I described here.  Glad I stopped to actually read the spec before writing about things.  :-D

      With the PR, we are essentially just pretending like we are a
      pre-segwit node (up to the assume-valid point)."
  a5link="https://bitcoincore.reviews/27050#l-117"
%}

## Releases and release candidates

*New releases and release candidates for popular Bitcoin infrastructure
projects.  Please consider upgrading to new releases or helping to test
release candidates.*

- [BDK 1.0.0-alpha.0][] is a test release of the major changes to BDK
  described in [Newsletter #243][news243 bdk].  Developers of
  downstream projects are encouraged to begin integration testing.

## Notable code and documentation changes

*Notable changes this week in [Bitcoin Core][bitcoin core repo], [Core
Lightning][core lightning repo], [Eclair][eclair repo], [LDK][ldk repo],
[LND][lnd repo], [libsecp256k1][libsecp256k1 repo], [Hardware Wallet
Interface (HWI)][hwi repo], [Rust Bitcoin][rust bitcoin repo], [BTCPay
Server][btcpay server repo], [BDK][bdk repo], [Bitcoin Improvement
Proposals (BIPs)][bips repo], [Lightning BOLTs][bolts repo], and
[Bitcoin Inquisition][bitcoin inquisition repo].*

- [Core Lightning #6012][] implements several significant improvements

>   in Core Lightning's Python implementation that allow it to better work

Reviewer: This reads like there is a whole second implementation of Core Lightning in Python?! TIL, if that’s the case. If it’s not the case, perhaps it should be clarified which parts of Core Lightning are Python or what this PR amends.

- [Core Lightning #6124][] commando-listrunes & commando-blacklist FIXME:adamjonas

> - [Eclair #2607][] adds a new `listrecievedpayments` RPC that lists all

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Eclair #2607][] adds a new `listreceivedpayments` RPC that lists all
```

- [Core Lightning #6124][] commando-listrunes & commando-blacklist FIXME:adamjonas

> - [Eclair #2607][] adds a new `listrecievedpayments` RPC that lists all

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Eclair #2607][] adds a new `listreceivedpayments` RPC that lists all
```

  file.

- [LND #7069][] allows a client to send a message to its
  [watchtower][topic watchtowers] asking for a session to be deleted.
  This allows the watchtower to stop monitoring for onchain transactions
  which close the channel in a revoked state.  This reduces the storage
  and CPU requirements for both the watchtower and the client.

- [BIPs #1372][] assigns [BIP327][] to the [MuSig2][topic musig]
  protocol for creating [multisignatures][topic multisignature] which
  can be used with [taproot][topic taproot] and other
  [BIP340][]-compatible [schnorr signature][topic schnorr signatures]
  systems.  As described in the BIP, the benefits include
  non-interactive key aggregation and a requirement for only two rounds
  of communication to complete signing.  Non-interactive signing is also
  possible with additional setup between the participants.  The protocol
  is compatible with all of the advantages of any multisignature scheme,
  such as significantly reducing onchain data and enhancing privacy---both

>   for participants and for user of the network in general.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  for participants and for users of the network in general.
```

{% include references.md %}
{% include linkers/issues.md v=2 issues="6012,6124,2607,7437,7069,1372,863" %}
[bdk 1.0.0-alpha.0]: https://github.com/bitcoindevkit/bdk/releases/tag/v1.0.0-alpha.0
[news243 bdk]: /en/newsletters/2023/03/22/#bdk-793
[neigut splice]: https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/lightning-dev/2023-March/003894.html
[teinturier splice]: https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/lightning-dev/2023-March/003895.html
[erhardt terms]: https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/bitcoin-dev/2023-April/021550.html

> [terms bip]: https://github.com/Xekyo/bips/pull/1

Reviewer: The PR sounds good to me

  to the Lightning-Dev mailing list this week about ongoing work on the
  [draft specification][bolts #863] for [splicing][topic splicing],
  which allows some funds in an offchain LN channel to be spent onchain
  (splice-out) or for onchain funds to be added to an offchain channel
  (splice-in).  The channel can continue to operate while an onchain
  splicing transaction is waiting for sufficient confirmations.

  {:.center}
  ![Splicing transaction flow](/img/posts/2023-04-splicing1.dot.png)

  Discussions this week included:

  - *Which commitment signatures to send:* when a splice is created, a
    node will hold parallel commitment transactions, one that spends
    from the original funding output and one that spends from each new
    funding output for all pending splices.  As of this writing, the
    current draft specification involves sending signatures for every
    commitment transaction that could possibly need to be confirmed,
    even for commitment transactions whose signatures have previously
    been sent.  As Lisa Neigut [explains][neigut splice], this allows reusing the
    workflow already used in LN for updating a commitment transaction.

>     However, it's requires extra work and bandwidth, so the alternative

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    However, it requires extra work and bandwidth, so the alternative
```

    of only sending signatures for any new commitment transactions is
    being contemplated.

  - *Relative amounts and zero-conf splices:* Bastien Teinturier
    [posted][teinturier splice] about several proposed specification
    updates.  In addition to the aforementioned commitment signatures
    change, he also recommends that splice proposals use relative
    amounts, e.g. "200,000 sats" indicates Alice will splice in that
    amount and "-50,000 sats" indicates she wants to splice out that

>     amount.  He also mentions, but does not go into detail, about a
>     concern involving zero-conf splicing.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    amount.  He also mentions a
    concern involving zero-conf splicing, but does not go into detail.
```

- **Proposed BIP for transaction terminology:** Mark "Murch" Erhardt

>   [posted][erhardt terms] the draft of an [information BIP][terms bip]

Reviewer 4: nit: seems "informational" names the type of bip? https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0002.mediawiki#bip-types
```suggestion
  [posted][erhardt terms] the draft of an [informational BIP][terms bip]
```

  to the Bitcoin-Dev mailing list that suggests a vocabulary to use for

>   refering to parts of transactions and concepts relating to them.  As

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  referring to parts of transactions and concepts relating to them.  As
```

  a0="The witness data is needed because peers may request non-recent
      blocks from us (we advertise ourselves as non-pruned)."
  a0link="https://bitcoincore.reviews/27050#l-31"

  q1="How much bandwidth might be saved by this enhancement during an IBD?
      In other words, what is the cumulative size of all witness data up to
      a recent block (say, height 781213)?"
  a1="110.6 GB, which is about 25% of the total block data. One participant
      pointed out that 110 GB is about 10% of his monthly ISP download
      limit, so this is a significant reduction. Participants also expected
      the percentage savings to increase with the recently expanded use of
      witness data."
  a1link="https://bitcoincore.reviews/27050#l-52"

  q2="Would this improvement reduce the amount of download data from all
      blocks back to the genesis block?"
  a2="No, only since segwit activation (block height 481824); blocks before
      segwit do not have witness data."
  a2link="https://bitcoincore.reviews/27050#l-73"

  q3="This PR implements two main changes, one to the block request logic
      and one to block validation. What are these changes in more detail?"

>   a3="In the block request logic, remove `MSG_WITNESS_FLAG` from the fetch
>       flags so our peers don't send us the witness data. In validation,
>       skip witness merkle tree checks because we don't have the witness."

Reviewer 4: I think the order here matters, otherwise the cause and effect relationship isn't quite right (when the logic for skipping merkle tree checks is added, we still have the witness data).
```suggestion
  a3="In validation, when script checks will be skipped, also skip witness merkle tree checks.
      In the block request logic, remove `MSG_WITNESS_FLAG` from the fetch
      flags so our peers don't send us the witness data."
```

  for gossip and will make it easier to develop plugins that use gossip
  data.

- [Core Lightning #6124][] adds the ability to blacklist runes with
  [commando][commando plugin] and maintain a list of all runes, which is
  useful for tracking and disabling compromised ones.

- [Eclair #2607][] adds a new `listrecievedpayments` RPC that lists all
  payments received by the node.

- [LND #7437][] adds support for backing up just a single channel to a
  file.

- [LND #7069][] allows a client to send a message to its
  [watchtower][topic watchtowers] asking for a session to be deleted.
  This allows the watchtower to stop monitoring for onchain transactions
  which close the channel in a revoked state.  This reduces the storage
  and CPU requirements for both the watchtower and the client.

- [BIPs #1372][] assigns [BIP327][] to the [MuSig2][topic musig]
  protocol for creating [multisignatures][topic multisignature] which
  can be used with [taproot][topic taproot] and other
  [BIP340][]-compatible [schnorr signature][topic schnorr signatures]
  systems.  As described in the BIP, the benefits include
  non-interactive key aggregation and a requirement for only two rounds

>   of communication to complete signing.  Non-interactive signing is also

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  of communication to complete the signing.  Non-interactive signing is also
```
